# EDA-On-AirBnB
Project Title:  EDA On Airbnb Bookings Analysis.

EDA :
•	Exploratory Data Analysis is used to analyze and investigate data sets and summarize the data.
•	It uses both analytical and visualization tools like plots to analyze.
•	It helps determine patterns, spot anomalies, test a hypothesis, or check assumptions.

Data Description:
•	Data analysis on millions of listings provided through Airbnb is a crucial factor for the company.
•	This dataset has around 48,895 observations in it with 16 columns and it is a mix between categorical and numeric values.
•	In columns like name, host_name, last_review, reviews_per_month  have some null values.

Data Processing:
•	Removing Duplicates
•	Detecting Null Values
•	Outlier Detection

Data Exploration and Visualization:
•	On column host_name: 
Michael, David, Alex, John and Kevin have mostly visited Manhattan and Brooklyn.
Jessica has mostly visited Brooklyn as compared to Manhattan with Queens, Staten Island and Bronx in decreasing order.
•	Room Type
Top spenders preferred mostly Entire home/apt and Private room
•	Grouping count of different rooms in different neighborhood group
•	Revenue Generated by Various Groups
•	Nights Spent
Manhattan has highest average cost, maximum rooms & maximum revenue followed by Brooklyn.
•	Top 10 Bookings from Manhattan & Brooklyn
One destination (Williamsburg) had 8.02 % bookings
•	Most Frequently Booked Neighbourhood
•	Price Density Distribution
•	Price V/S Nights and Average Price

Conclusion:
•	Sonder(NYC),  Blueground, Michael and David are top 4 most spending customers. Their popular destinations are mainly Manhattan and Brooklyn.
•	Top spenders prefer Private rooms or Entire apartments to stay. So, it’s may be a tourist place cum business hub. 
•	Manhattan had generated maximum revenue i.e., 4,263,189 $ and Williamsburg in Brooklyn is the most preferred destination with 3,919 bookings. 
•	Entire Homes/Apt  had generated maximum revenue and had average price of 200$.
